Welcome back in this lesson we're looking for loops.
So for loops are probably by far the most popular loop and for loops basically are used to loop through
a pre-determined number of times.
So they still share those same initialization condition and then a final expression.
So let's take a look at the four blue and we're going to create a very basic form.
So let's do a four.
So we're going to start with four.
And then as mentioned we do need that initialization.
So we're going to use X again we need to set up a variable.
So I'm declaring X and I'm giving X a starting value.
So you started it as zero.
Next we need to have a condition in order to break out of the loop otherwise the loop will go on and
on and on and on.
So and it also crashed browsers.
That's not good.
And we do need a way out of the loop.
So let's start there.
And let's break out of the loop.
So previously we were breaking out.
So let's break that 10.
And then lastly.
So what is the final thing that we need in this loop.
So we know that we started at zero.
We know that we're looping through while X is less than 10 but we need a way to get to 10 or above 10.
We need basically a way an expression in order to be able to break out of our condition.
So that's where we increment X and notice that that's all done nice and neatly between the rounded brackets
within the for loop.
So we don't have any values FX or any of these floating outside.
It's all nice and neatly packaged.
And this is probably why the four loops are the most popular because it's just this one statement.
And then you know everything that's in here is basically over.
So speaking of output let's set up our output.
So again documents and get element by.
And let's grab output.
So place the value in there.
So this will give us something that we can actually output.
So let's do a Puts and set in her mouth and we're going to equal that sort of concatenate it together
to the existing inner H.T. of mental illness.
There sort of add to it.
And let's just say value of x is.
So we do relatively What we do earlier.
So we're going to list the value of x and then concatenate together a line break.
So it's more readable.
So let's try this out and we see that starting at 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 soulis everything out once it
hits the condition that operates of that condition.
So it's as easy as that.
And we can see that this is also one of the cleanest ways to create loops.
So we have everything right there in front of us we have all of our settings here are expressions that
allow us to initiate and set up that.
So this time I wanted to do the same challenges we did earlier where we only output values that are.
So previously we did even.
So let's do values that are on.
We only want to output the values are odd and change this to loop through to 30 or 31.
And I try to open up your editor trying it.
And I'll show you the solution.
So you have the opportunity to try that.
And I do believe we did say 31.
So let's loop it starting at zero.
Looping at 231.
And we're only going to put the on value.
So this is where we do our conditional statement here where you might check to see if X modulus 2 is.
So we know that if it's even then it's going to be zero.
So we're also we can also check to see if it's not zero.
So if it's not zero then we know that it's not even.
So therefore it must be all right.
So let's try this sort of refreshment and we see that we get all the numbers all the way up and we notice
that it's on including 31.
So the second part of this challenge is this is a surprise second part what I want you to do is include
31 in this list.
So go ahead.
Open up your editor and try that OK.
So the solution for this was really easy.
So I'm going back to where we were looking at conditions.
We know that we can do less than or equal that equal to.
So let's try that now refreshed and there's 31 within our list.
So let's finish off this lesson with another challenge.
So what I want to do is I want to ask the user how many bananas they want to eat and I want to loop
through it and I want to write down how many calories each banana each banana that the person's consuming
is adding.
And then after the loop is finished I want to write out the total calories that the user entered that
the user had consumed.
So this is going to be at the top here.
You're going to have to set up a prompt and then depending on what the value of the prompt is then we're
going to do our loop.
We've got our conditions there for the loop and we need to add and multiply our running calorie count
of how the how many calories the user is consuming.
And also a lot of calories are within every banana.
There's approximately 89 calories.
So that's the number that you can go by in order to create this challenge and open up your editor try
it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So I hope you had an opportunity to try this out for yourself.
So what I first want to do I just go to stablish a variable for the banana calories.
So you slowly to create variables for these so that the script is more dynamic.
And if for instance all of a sudden I find that the bananas.
Maybe they were really large bananas and the calories were more than 89 then I can easily go back and
adjust my script.
So let's set one up.
Calories.
Banana.
And actually I did look this up.
So it does say that bananas are 89 calories.
So right I use that number from.
So next we need to have how many.
So just set up a variable we'll call it
we'll call it but and I count bananas.
How about we just call it bananas.
So let's set up that prompt and ask the user how many bananas
do you want to eat.
And finish that off with a question mark.
So we're going to ask the user how many bananas they want to eat.
So this should be N-number numeric value.
And we're going to loop through the number of bananas that the user wants to eat.
So there's no use doing the loop unless we have at least one.
So let's set the value of x at 1 and we're going to continue to loop it through while X is less than
1.
So if they enter in zero then we already know that we need to break out of this loop So next we need
to calculate how many calories is going to be.
So let me get rid of this part here and let's update this.
So we know that we're putting.
And then lastly we also need to have an output of the total calories.
Let's do another one here so let's set up another variable.
So this will be a placeholder we'll just call it total for now.
And right now we're just starting at zero.
And now let's add in our total here so we know that every time we're looping through we're going to
do total and we're going to add to total whatever the value of calories banana is going to be.
That's you.
So again this is dynamic.
So if we change the number of calories per Pineta our totals will change as well.
So let's list some type of message.
So you ate one and then the
another.
And let's also add this dynamically.
So this is some message to the user it can be anything that you want really.
You ate one banana and other calories.
Your total is now.
And this is where it can just add whatever the value of total is.
So there we go.
So we've got that output and your total calorie count is.
And then this we just need to enter in the total there so we don't actually have to have the line break
either because this is our last part of whatever we're putting into our aged hymnal.
So let's give it a try.
So let's sort of refresh the page.
How many bananas do you want to eat so I can eat bananas.
So you ate one banana and other 89 calories.
So let's see that we do get to 10.
So we've got a total calorie of 90.
So that worked.
So this is kind of ugly.
So what we also need to do is we need to change the value of X there.
So let's say let's update this now.
So let's add x.
So it's a dynamic value.
So it's going to be changing.
And also we also want to see a different message for the first one because when we see that our first
one you ate one banana another 89 calories your total is now 89.
Well they really eat another one.
And so the 89 is right.
But when you type something different within that message.
So now what do we need to do as well is to add a condition in there and let's change some of this wording.
We know that the first time through if x is equal to one then they've only ate one banana.
If x is equal to anything larger than one then it should be bananas.
And another Indian calories added to your total or something like that.
So try to open that up in your editor and try making these adjustments.
I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the solution really is that we can't use an estate that's to check to see what the value of x is.
And we can also go back to our default which was the Treasury statement which we were looking at before.
So let's use that one.
And I set a variable.
Am I going to give it as going give a name holder.
So this was just a variable that we've created over there.
And now I can reset the value holder.
So let's take hold her and this is actually going to be what I'm using for the output So if
x is equal to one.
So if x is equal to one then this is a terror unary operator.
So it does set the value of
does.
And so it'll say you ate actually should be greater than 1.
So let's let's update this.
So I think greater than 1.
So if this is true then it's going to say banana is
another whatever.
Calories added to your total
now and then that's the value.
So let's also do something for if it is really equal to 1.
So first time through.
It's going to be one.
So say you ate one banana
and the one at that.
So now what stakeholder.
And we're going to drop him in instead of having this very odd add in there.
So now and we should also add items and spacing.
So let's see how this works or if the wording is a little bit better so let's do it and we can see you
ate one banana.
Eighty nine calories added to your total now at 89 you eat two bananas and notice as there are eighty
nine calories out into your total.
That's kind of long but we'll just leave it at that.
And we see that everything is working and we've got better grammar within our output.
So in the next lesson we're going to look at nested loops and what we could do with nested loops.
So it's coming up.